.\" Hey, Emacs!  This is an -*- nroff -*- source file.
.TH GNUCAP 1 "November 2001" "Debian Project" "Debian GNU"

.SH NAME
gnucap \- GNU Circuit Analysis Package
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gnucap
[\fB-b\fP filename] [\fB-i\fP filename] [filename]
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Gnucap
is a general purpose circuit simulator.  It performs nonlinear
dc and transient analyses, fourier analysis, and ac analysis
linearized at an operating point.  It is fully interactive and
command driven.  It can also be run in batch mode or as a server.
The output is produced as it simulates.  Spice compatible models
for the MOSFET (level 1,2,3) and diode are included in this
release.
.PP
Since it is fully interactive, it is possible to make changes and
re-simulate quickly.  The interactive design makes it well suited
to the typical iterative design process used it optimizing a circuit
design.  It is also well suited to undergraduate teaching where
Spice in batch mode can be quite intimidating.  This version, while
still officially in beta test, should be stable enough for basic
undergraduate teaching and courses in MOS design.
.PP
In batch mode it is mostly Spice compatible, so it is often possible
to use the same file for both Gnucap and Spice (e.g. ngspice).
.PP
The analog simulation is based on traditional nodal analysis with
iteration by Newton's method and LU decomposition.  An event queue
and incremental matrix update speed up the solution for large
circuits (at some expense for small circuits).
.PP
It also has digital devices for mixed signal simulation.  The
digital devices may be implemented as either analog subcircuits or
as true digital models.  The simulator will automatically determine
which to use.  Networks of digital devices are simulated as digital,
with no conversions to analog between gates.  This results in
digital circuits being simulated faster than on a typical analog
simulator, even with behavioral models.  The digital mode is
experimental and needs work.  There will be substantial improvements
in future releases.
.PP
Gnucap is modular from the ground up. All devices, input languages and most
algorithms can be customized and replaced at running time. Extensions and
additional plugins are not part of the main package, but can be found on the
project website.

.SH OPTIONS
Various command-line options are available. These are processed in order.
If no parameters are given, gnucap will start in interactive
mode (recommended) and read from standard input.
.TP
\fI-a filename\fP
load plugin from filename during startup
.TP
\fI-i filename\fI
execute the commands in the named file then go into interactive mode
.TP
\fI-b filename\fP
execute the commands in the named file then exit (Spice batch mode)
.TP
\fI--<command>\fP
execute interactive command as if typed into interactive mode. E.g. --verilog,
switches to verilog mode.
.TP
.SH BUGS
See 
.B /usr/share/doc/gnucap/bugs
for a list of known bugs in this release.
.PP
Gnucap is an ongoing research project. It is being released in a
preliminary phase in hopes that it will be useful and that others
will use it as a thrust or base for their research and development.

.SH FILES

During startup, the first of
\fIgnucap.rc\fP,
\fI.gnucap/gnucap.rc\fP,
\fI$sysconfdir/gnucap.rc\fP,
\fI$sysconfdir/gnucap/gnucap.rc\fP will be included. Otherwise, default plugins will be loaded.

Here, \fI$sysconfdir\fP is typically \fI${prefix}/etc\fP, and defaults to \fI/usr/local/etc\fP.
It is expected to be set to \fI/etc\fP in packages obtained from the usual
operating system distributors.

.SH AUTHOR
Gnucap is being written by Albert Davis <ad211@freeelectron.net>
.PP
This manual page was written by Jon Rabone <jkr@debian.org> and maintained
by Hamish Moffatt <hamish@debian.org> for the Debian package of gnucap.
Modified by Felix Salfelder <felix@salfelder.org>.
For the full documentation, please visit
.B http://gnucap.org.
.PP
This release has been prepared with funding through the NGI0 Entrust Fund, a
fund established by NLnet with financial support from the European Commission's
Next Generation Internet programme, under the aegis of DG Communications
Networks, Content and Technology under grant agreement No 101069594.
