.\" Hey, Emacs!  This is an -*- nroff -*- source file.
.TH GNUCAP-IBIS 1 "November 2001" "Debian Project" "Debian GNU"

.SH NAME
gnucap-ibis \- GNU Circuit Analysis Package IBIS translator
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gnucap-ibis
[\fB--typ\fP] [\fB--min\fP] [\fB--max\fP] [\fB--power-on\fP] [\fB--on\fP] [\fB--off\fP] filename [\fB--dump\fP [filename]] [\fB--spice\fP [filename]]
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I GNUCAP-IBIS 
is a IBIS translator tool in the GNUCAP suite. It will transform IBIS models
into SPICE models for use in SPICE simulations.
.PP
The IBIS model in \fIfilename\fP is being parsed and can be translated to
whatever format is requested. By using the \fB--spice\fP option a SPICE model
can be generated. By using the \fB--dump\fP option a IBIS dump may be performed
(mainly for testing purposes). A typical usage can be

gnucap-ibis mymodel.ibis -spice

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
\fI--typ\fI
sets simulation mode to typical values (default)
.TP
\fI--min\fI
sets simulation mode to minimal values
.TP
\fI--max\fI
sets simulation mode to maximal values
.TP
\fI--power-on\fI
sets device state to power on
.TP
\fI--on\fI
sets device state to on
.TP
\fI--off\fI
sets device state to off
.TP
\fI--prefix prefix\fI
sets the prefix on generated code (default no prefix)
.TP
\fI--dump [filename]\fI
enable the dumping of the interprented IBIS file in IBIS format. Optionally an
output filename may be given (default filename is incomming filename with .dump
postfix)
.TP
\fI--spice [filename]\fI
enable the dumping of a SPICE model. Optionally an output filename may be given
(default filename is incomming filename . mode .ckt).

.SH BUGS
See 
.B /usr/share/doc/gnucap/bugs 
for a list of known bugs in this release.
.PP
GNUCAP is an ongoing research project.  It is being released in a
preliminary phase in hopes that it will be useful and that others
will use it as a thrust or base for their research.  I also hope
for some comments that may help me direct my research.

.SH AUTHOR
GNUCAP is being written by Albert Davis <aldavis@ieee.org>
.PP
This manual page was written by Magnus Danielson <cfmd@bredband.net> and
maintained by Hamish Moffatt <hamish@debian.org> for the Debian package of 
gnucap. 
For the full LaTeX documentation, please see 
.B /usr/share/doc/gnucap/manual.
